# x86

## 1. Types of malwares:
1. Backdoors: allows remote access
2. Botnet: malware that receives command from a server instead of a human attacker
3. Downloader: downloads other malwares
4. Rootkit: hides its own presence and acts maliciously
5. Worm: copies itself over and over again

- x86 asm is for intel 8000 prcoessor series, there are two syntax AT&T and MS-DOS/Intel(more common)
- 1byte(8bits) -> 1word(16bits) -> double-word(32bits) [Ex: 0xfff001]


---

## 2. x86 Architecture:
### i. General purpose registers
* EAX: (accumulator) main maths register
* EBX: (base) stores base address of the program
* EDX: (general purpose) i/o operations and can extend eax to 64bits
* ESI: (offset) points to where the code should be read
* EDI: (destination) points to where to write
* EBP: (base-stack-pointer) reference to _bottom_ of current stack  / local variables
* ESP: (top-stack-pointer) referecne to _top_ of current stack / local variables

### ii. Segment registers
* CS: (code-segment) used for code access
* DS: (data-segment) used for data access
* ES, FS, GS: (extra-segment) used during string operations
* SS: (stack-segment) used for accessing execution stack
- _no program can directly change the segment-registers_
- _NXT-program-instruction = CS + EIP :(you can only change the eip)_

### iii. Instruction pointer register (EIP)
* points to the next instruction to be executed with reference to the program entry point

### iv. Control registers:
- CR0: controls operating mode
- CR1: (not implemented)
- CR2: memory page fault information
- CR3: memory page directory information
- CR4: feature capabilities of the processor
- _we cant directly modify or access control registers_
- _... but we can copy it to a general-purpose one and know the processor state_

### v. Flags: (help to control, check and verify program execution)
#### a. Status flags
- CF: Carry Flag (shows unsigned int overflow)
- PF: Parity Flag (shows even bits)
- AF: Adjust Flag (shows carry/borrow operation)
- ZF: Zero Flag (shows result of an operation is 0)
- SF: Sign Flag (shows +/-)
- OF: Overflow Flag (shows signed int overflow)

#### b. OS flags
- TF: Trap Flag (controls single-step mode, like for debugging)
- IF: Interrupt Enable Flag (controls how the processor responds to external resources)
- IOPL: I/O Privilege Level Flag (controls io privelge)
- NT: Nested Task Flag (controls whether current runnign task is connected to the previous task)
- RF: Resume Flag (controls how the processor responds to exceptions)
- VM: Virtual-8086 Mode Flag (indicates if the processor is operating in the virtual-8086 mode)
- AC: Alignment Check Flag (alginment checking of memory references)
- VIF: Virtual Interrupt Flag (replicates the IF flag for virtual mode)
- VIP: Virtual Interrupt Pending Flag (processor is in virtual mode and an interrupt is pedning)
- ID: Identification Flag (indicates whethere the prcoessor supports CPUID instructions)

---

## 3. Stack and Heap
### Stack
- Stack pointer moves from larger-address (0xffff10) to  smaller-address(0x001000).
- Essentially, the stack grows _DOWNWARD_ in memory.
- Each function is provided space in the stack called the StackFrame.
- FP(frame pointer) points to the previous position of the SP(stack pointer), thus capturing the new function between them.
- Stack variables are local, following LIFO and managed _automatically_ by the CPU.


### Heap
- Heap moves from smaller-address to larger.
- It grows _UPWARDS_.
- Dynamically managed by the programer, by using functions like malloc(), calloc(), realloc() etc.

---

## 4. x86 - Assembly
- creating asm from code: 
    ```bash
    gcc -S -O0 file.c
    # -S creates the AT&T syntax assmebly
    # -m32 creates 32-bit executable
    # -Oi does the ith-level optimization  (more optimization means less human readable)
    ```

- Syntax:
    ```
    The biggest different you will see is that in AT&T Syntax, the source and destinations are reversed.
    - AT&T Syntax : movl %esp, %ebp [This means move esp into ebp.]
    - Intel Syntax : mov esp, ebp [This means move ebp into esp.]
    ```

- Parts
    ```
    1. _Data-section_: declare initialized data or constants (Ex. contants, buffer-sizes, file-names)

    2. BSS-section: declare unitialized variable

    3. Text-section: actual code section, begins with global_start which tells the kernel where the execution begins.
    ```

### i. Program-1
- CODE
    ```assembly
    ;moving_immediate_date: mov immediate data to register

    section .data

    section .bss
        buffer resb 1

    section .text
        global _start


    _start:
        nop

    mov_immediate_data_to_register:
        mov eax, 100
        mov byte[buffer], 0x50

    exit:
        mov eax, 1
        mov ebx, 0
        int 0x80

    ```

- DEBUG
    ```bash
    gdb -q filename 
    b _start # breaking point at start
    disas    # disassembler
    si       # step into
    i r      # info register
    ```

- HACK
    ```bash
    set $eax = 0x66
    ```

### ii. Program-2
